feat: PUC-740: comparing data from Openstack and Nautobot (#624)
rackerlabs/understack: python/diff-nautobot-understack/README.md

# Nautobot vs OpenStack Comparison Tool

This tool compares data between Nautobot and OpenStack.

## Currently Supported Comparisons

| OpenStack | Nautobot              |
|-----------|-----------------------|
| Project   | Tenant                |
| Network   | UCVNI & Namespace     |

---

## Setup Instructions

1. cd python/diff-nautobot-understack
2. python3 -m venv .venv
3. source .venv/bin/activate

> 4. poetry lock

Reviewer: I think you may have used an old version of poetry? I ran `poetry lock` and I see some differences from yours, for example:
``` text
-# This file is automatically @generated by Poetry 1.8.3 and should not be changed by hand.
+# This file is automatically @generated by Poetry 2.0.1 and should not be changed by hand.
```

> 2. python3 -m venv .venv
> 3. source .venv/bin/activate
> 4. poetry lock
> 5. poetry install

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. poetry install
```

poetry will handle the creation of this virtual environment for you. It'll use `.venv` in the project if you configure it to do so locally on your machine with `poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true`.

Reviewer 2: You should note that the user can create a shell with `poetry shell` and then when they exit it will clean up auth variables. Or they can run `source .venv/bin/activate` or `poetry run <commands-below>`

6. Export environment variables (or add them to a .env file):

>    1. export nautobot_api_token=<get_token_from_nautobot_dev>

Reviewer: I think this should be `NAUTOBOT_TOKEN` to match the other scripts/tools: https://rackerlabs.github.io/understack/operator-guide/scripts/#setup

>    1. export NAUTOBOT_TOKEN=<get_token_from_nautobot_dev>
>    2. export NAUTOBOT_URL=https://nautobot.staging.undercloud.rackspace.net (no need to export for dev env)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. export NAUTOBOT_URL=https://nautobot.url.here
   # users should browse to https://nautobot.url.here/user/api-tokens/ and generate an API token
   1. export NAUTOBOT_TOKEN=<token-from-above>
```

>    2. export nautobot_url=https://nautobot.staging.undercloud.rackspace.net (no need to export for dev env)

Reviewer: I think this should be `NAUTOBOT_URL` to match the other scripts/tools: https://rackerlabs.github.io/understack/operator-guide/scripts/#setup

Reviewer 2: Agreed. I gave some more comments to that below.

   3. export OS_CLOUD=uc-dev-infra

>    4. export OS_CLIENT_CONFIG_FILE=./my_clouds.yaml (set this if it is in any other location not [defined here](https://opendev.org/openstack/openstacksdk#getting-started))

Reviewer: It would be nice if the app actually checked to see all the required environment variables exist. I just tried to run uc-diff but got 500 lines of errors due to missing / typo'd environment variables.

- Below are some example commands
```
    uc-diff --help
    uc-diff project undercloud -v

>     uc-diff network

Reviewer: `uc-diff network` is giving me an error:

``` text
ValidationError: 2 validation errors for NetworkModel
provider_physical_network
  Input should be a valid string [type=string_type, input_value=None, input_type=NoneType]
    For further information visit https://errors.pydantic.dev/2.10/v/string_type
vni_id
  Input should be a valid integer [type=int_type, input_value=None, input_type=NoneType]
    For further information visit https://errors.pydantic.dev/2.10/v/int_type
```
